---
title: Lament of Cirryn
revid: 184117
source: https://deepwoken.fandom.com/wiki/Lament_of_Cirryn
license: CC BY-SA 3.0 (content derived from the Deepwoken Wiki)
categories: [Cut Content, Books]
notices:
  - This page contains Cut Content This page contains information regarding content that has been removed from the game and is no longer present or was scrapped during development and never made it to the final product.
---

# Lament of Cirryn

## Description

_**Lament of Cirryn**_ was a [Book](Book.md).

## Text

### 

Lament of Cirryn

> compiled by the Emerald Scholar
> 
>   
> The sound of birds is a common occurrence within the nested corridors of the Greathives. I've woken up to these chirps countless times within my decades spent within them, though tomorrow I travel to another. While the construction of Greathive Aratel is still ongoing, my party of Lifeweave scholars have been tasked with a mission by Hivelord Ximac Diri himself. By next starset, we shall begin our departure to one of the eldest Greathives known to my kind, the First. Some consider this a pilgrimage of sorts, as other Hivekin believe the First to be as reverent as holy ground, the beginning of our society. To experience this journey myself is exciting, to say the least! Though, I do ponder the morality of what's to come with our task. I trust in Ximac's guidance, his bravery has brought us this far, but I cannot help but worry nonetheless.
> 
> While I'm lost in such thoughts, a small bird approaches; small, and fragile. “Look at you!” I remark, kneeling down to get a better view of it. The bird hops toward me, round in shape, and colored a bright red. I hold my finger out to touch it, but just as I almost can feel its soft feathers, it flies away.
> 
> “You never learn, Ehkusa!” A familiar voice calls out to me, although I'm puzzled at first as to where. I look around for a moment, until I hear the voice again, “Behind you, fool.” I quickly turn around, and see Remaz standing over me, his mask gleaming from the rays of the sun.“For some esteemed scholar, you're not very bright of a woman, Ehkusa,” he remarks once more, as if his previous comment wasn't enough. “Quit it! I simply want to appreciate these fleetings things...” I reply, turning away from him and gazing toward where the bird once sat. “And this little one got away too. A shame.” I sigh, beginning to stand up. He's always given me a tough time, though it's a caring sort, so I do not mind too much. “Did you pack your bags?” I ask him as I collect my belongings: little scraps of paper, ink, garments, and various ether-based snacks if needed.
> 
> “Aye! Last night, it took me quite a few hours. You don't seem to be bringing that much though, why's that?” He asks half-honestly, then invasively peers over my shoulder. I bump him away with my arm, closing my pouch with my belongings inside.
> 
> “It's not exactly a vacation, we have a duty entrusted to us by Lord Ximac himself. Take yourself more seriously, Remaz, we only need to bring what we need,” I calmly assert myself, although he is testing my patience already. “Alright, alright...” he mutters as he backs off. “Be at the docks by starset, I'll be waiting for you with K'aal. And please, you truly should bring more with you just in case anything goes wrong, whether it be with our task or what follows after. I don't want to see you with a crack in your mask, Ehkusa.” He speaks in a much more stern tone, it's almost jarring seeing him change attitude so quickly. “Understood,” I reply quietly, although I do ponder his anxiety. It's not like him to worry this much... or perhaps, he simply doesn't show it to me often. With my pouch on my hip, I head off to my quarters to pack additional supplies.
> 
> Starrise arrives, and I've already begun packing once again. In addition to my previous items, I'm entrusting the last remaining compartments of my pouch to a small stiletto for protection, as well as a shard of Ryrda's mask for good luck. “To hope we'll meet again.” I mumble quietly to myself as I tuck the shard away into the darkness of the pouch. Gazing out the window, I watch birds on the branches of the Greathive outside bring their children to rest within their little homes. “A future anyone could wish for..” I muse to myself, observing the mother bird care to her nestlings. A future I had wished for, yet duty steals me from. “Perhaps one day.” I get up from my wooden desk chair, and sit upon the bed too small for any grown Hivekin. Outside the window, the birds head to sleep. So, little birds, I suppose I shall too.
> 
> Familiar chirps greet me from my restless slumber, as it seems starset had come sooner than expected. “Good morning to you as well,” I look out the window, though no birds are to be seen. The chirping must be from around the corner, perhaps? I raise myself out of bed, although too fast perhaps, as I stumble my way toward the window. Peering out both sides, I look for any signs of my familiar friends, the source of the song. Yet, none are to be seen. “Odd.. no time for such matters, though,” I shake myself awake, getting dressed and preparing for the voyage to come. Picking up my pouch, I realize it is still lightweight; I pray that Remaz won't make an issue out of it, lest we worry about such frivolous things for what's to come.
> 
> “Fashionably late, as always!” Remaz remarks as I step onto the docks, though it's quite difficult to hear him over the roar of waves crashing into the Greathive's roots. K'aal shakes his head, patting Remaz on the back. “Relax. The ship is here, and all three of us are here too, that's all that matters,” K'aal calmly says, trying to make Remaz control himself, I suppose. Remaz looks over to him, then to me, and sighs. “Fine. Let's just get going already, alright?” He mutters as he walks onto the ship. K'aal shrugs, looking at me with a puzzled expression. “I don't particularly understand what his issue is... he's a different person when you're not around.” He says looking off at the sea.
> 
> “I brush it off. It's fine, K'aal, really. And how have you been? It's been weeks since I last could meet with you,” I smile looking toward him, but his gaze doesn't shift from the sea.
> 
> He's always seemed troubled, keeping to himself, but today seems particularly different.
> 
> A few moments pass in which he doesn't say a word, then moves to board the ship with Remaz silently. “...You make it really hard to get to know you better, you know that?” I mumble to myself as I follow K'aal aboard the ship quietly.
> 
> Hours have passed on the sea now, and our party has sat in silence within our chambers. I cannot help but wonder what is troubling these two so much, have I missed some sort of argument? Did I say something wrong? “What's with the quiet, you two? It's not like the both of you to stay silent for hours on end,” I finally break the silence in the room, watching the both of them jump in their seats from the startle of noise. “Has the reality of this not set in on you yet, Ehkusa?” K'aal asks sternly, looking toward me with a fierce look. His hand rests on the wooden desk, tapping it in frustration. “Well, trying new things is our job, isn't it? To be one of Ximac's Scholars is to discover the unknown,” I hastily reply, somewhat unnerved by K'aal's frustration.
> 
> He must have noticed my anxiety in my voice, and he relaxed his tone, “Look. Lifeweave may be the future for our technology, but this... this unnerves me, Ehkusa. It makes me scared. It doesn't feel right.” I look down at his hand resting on the table, watching him grip it nervously.
> 
> I glance over to Remaz, who's idly looking out the seaside window of our chamber, then I gaze back to K'aal.
> 
> I speak calmly, responding to him in a manner that suggests no offense, “I... look, I know. I understand, I really do. I know people within our Greathive are calling it.. necromancy, and other foul things, but I trust Ximac's judgment. Even moreso, because it's Cirryn, I get why they're concerned about us. But, even so, we shouldn't be so low spirited due to what our peers have said about our duty. By the time we finish our task, reanimation successful or not, we shall come home and all will return to normal. Think of it just as any other of our previous duties. We're going to be fine.”
> 
> Silence returns to the room following my attempt at cheering them up. A moment passes, and Remaz looks over to me. “It's not everyday I get to hear someone claim using necromancy to revive a hero is ‘any other duty.' What's next, are you gonna tell me that _Ryrda_ is waiting home for you, too?” He lets out a sly laugh, and I have to resist the urge to slam the tabl- I slam the table. “Gods below, you're something else!” I shout as I get up from my seat, and hastily rush out of the chambers, slamming the door behind me. I can't stand him, these people, the way K'aal does nothing, I... ugh.
> 
> I run to the deck of the ship, leaning on the railing as I catch my breath. I turn around, cross my arms and look off to the eternal blue surrounding us. “I can't, just...” I sigh, peering off at the waves, somewhat misty eyed. I rummage through my pouch, and find Ryrda's mask shard. I hold it high, and I can feel myself shaking, staring up at it. “I know you're still here,” I stammer through tears, looking at the piece of mask. I can't believe Remaz would just... he knows they were important to me. That they are still important to me.
> 
> I clutch the piece of mask, and fall to my knees onto the deck of the ship, looking down. I hear a door faintly open in the distance, then close softly. Quiet steps approach towards me, and I haven't the energy to look up. “What is it?!” I cry out, unsure of the person behind me.
> 
> A moment passes, and I've been given the response of great silence. I turn behind me quickly, expecting to see Remaz mocking me once more, only to see nobody at all. “This way, this time,” A voice on my right side speaks softly, sitting beside me, considerably more calm than before. Remaz.
> 
> “I don't want to talk to you right now.” I attempt to say flatly, though my voice is still shaky. He sighs, placing a hand on my shoulder. “I know. I'm sorry, that was... that was too far.” He mumbles quietly, it's clear he feels guilty about it. “I didn't mean for that to come out, or to even think like that, just... sometimes I get caught up in that ‘mask,' you know? That image of the quippy Vesperian making light out of everything, but... that was too much. I'm sorry, Ehkusa.” He finishes his apology, and awaits my response quietly, looking off to the sea just as I am. I know he doesn't mean to act out like this, but... it still hurts. But I don't want to hurt him either.
> 
> I wait a moment and take a deep breathe, exhaling, “I forgive you, Remaz.” He takes his hand off my shoulder, and we sit together quietly. Waves bellow into the side of the ship, as we sit together with no words spoken.
> 
> The [Moonseye](Glossary.md#the-moonseye) rises above the horizon as the sky slowly grows dark. “I'm going to head to bed,” I stammer out, holding onto the railing of the ship's deck as I stumble upon my feet. Remaz looks over and nods solemnly, then quietly replies, “I'll be sitting here for a while longer. Rest well, Ehkusa. Tomorrow will be difficult. And... Thank you for forgiving me.” He looks off to the waves once more. I can't help but feel a little bad for him; while I have forgiven him, I do not think he has forgiven himself yet. I nod to him, and return to our chambers. K'aal is already asleep within his own bed, and I lay down upon mine, staring up at the ceiling for a few moments. I hold Ryrda's mask shard up one last time, contemplating it, then putting it back into my pouch.
> 
> A great deal of time passes until we arrive at the First. As the day is finally upon us, my party and I are anxious but ready to get this over with. “Allow me to lead, please. I've been around here before, and some masks here know me already,” K'aal speaks as we're led up to the deck of the ship, observing the massive Greathive ahead of us. As the ship draws closer to the dock, Remaz looks over to K'aal and asks, “And you're sure they won't require some sort of identification or something? I doubt they'll believe us if we claim Ximac sent us without any proof.” K'aal smiles and shakes his head, peering off to the dock in front of our ship, “They know we're coming, believe me.”
> 
> Elegant branches stretch across the sky above us, as the Greathive looms overhead. “They said the First was grandiose, but this... I never could have imagined!” I chatter to K'aal as he leads us toward the plaza. The volume of birds chattering here compared to our home Greathive is one of the first things I notice as we walk closer within, and other Hivekin travelers pass in and out. “Grandiose is an understatement, Ehkusa. You're lucky to have me guiding you two, or else this would be a much longer trip then planned,” K'aal laughs as we move closer towards the plaza. As we draw nearer towards it, a tall Ganymede guard walks toward our group to stop us, peering down at us.
> 
> “Aye, we saw ‘yer ship. The dock's only open to select groups at the moment, what's your purpose here?” The guard bellows sternly, his bright eyes staring into Remaz's mask in particular. “Youuu look... no, you're not him,” The guard begins to say, then shakes his head, turning to K'aal.
> 
> I don't understand why these guards always try to talk to Remaz or K'aal before me... “I-” K'aal begins to speak, before I interrupt him, “We're Lifeweave Scholars sent by Hivelord Ximac Diri of the Second. We're here for Cirryn. If you'd please guide us.” The Ganymede's bright eyes blink twice, evidently puzzled by the statement for a moment, before the realization hits him. “Ah, you're that group...” His expression shifts to something much more grim as he looks off to the side, possibly looking for someone else to deal with us. I didn't expect a warm welcome for what we're here to do, so I'm not too surprised.
> 
> A group of guards leads us up to Cirryn's memorial, and the room falls silent; it seems we're expected. The statue of Cirryn is massive, towering over all of us. I stare up at the statue, looking deeply into his mask... it feels eerily familiar, but I can't put my finger on why. Remaz strides forward then faces toward me, taking a dramatic pose as he begins to speak, “Surely, you've heard the tale of Cirryn, the Starset Blade?” One of the guards chuckles, while another looks annoyed. “No, my good friend, I have not,” I hastily respond, laughing as I play along. K'aal buries his head into his hands out of embarrassment.
> 
> “The stories are true, you see! Cirryn, the bravest of the ancient Hivelord's warriors, rose above all others when the Hive was in most dire of circumstances. Indeed, he drew his blade against the blasphemous Etrean invaders who sought to steal our Lifeweave artifacts ages ago. Oh, how he defended the Hive and its glory! Gods below, rest his soul!” Remaz finishes his speech, and I cannot help but laugh along with him, “Thank you for the history lesson, dear historian.” I collect myself, and look over to the guards standing around us, some remaining stoic, then my gaze drifts over to an interesting metal structure nearby.
> 
> That shape is odd... and the size of this structure, what is this? “What's this over here? I've never seen anything like this.” I approach the immensely large metal door; it's cold to the touch. Too cold to the touch, and I sense... nothing.
> 
> “That is what we call the _Lifeless Chamber_,” one of the taller guards responds, walking closer to me. Gods below, why is everyone here tall? “This used to serve as a prison for rogue Lifeweavers in a time long past. Though, we needn't use such constructs anymore...” He continues, and I stare at the door. “Could you elaborate? May I look inside?” I look around for a handle of some sort to open the door, asking as I peer around. The guard looks over to me slightly puzzled, “By all means. It's constructed entirely of iron, devoid of any material a Lifeweaver could manipulate.
> 
> Although, if an Ironsinger was in there it would not be secure at all.. But I digress. No sort of Lifeweave can be used there whatsoever.” The guard continues to explain as I look up, observing a conspicuous button near the door. “Now, is this...” I mumble to myself, reaching up to attempt pressing it, although I cannot reach it. Lovely.
> 
> “Need some help?” Remaz approaches the guard and I, eyeing the button I was struggling to reach. “Pff.” He scoffs, hitting the button with ease. A loud ‘click' echoes throughout the hall, as the large iron door slowly lowers, revealing an impressively large, empty interior constructed purely of iron. “Wow...” I step into the room, with each step making a loud metal noise ring throughout the chamber. It's cold, and I begin to understand what the guard meant by it being devoid of life. “It feels so... empty, compared to the life of the Greathive,” I mumble to myself, walking deeper into the large egg-shaped room. “And dark!” K'aal shouts over by the door, looking into the chamber with Remaz.
> 
> “If you're done now, I'd like to get our job here over with,” Remaz calls out to me, and I gasp and rush back to the door.
> 
> “Gods below, apologies. I get caught up in new things quite easily,” I follow him and K'aal out, back toward the group of guards. “It's fine, Ehkusa, honestly. Let's worry about the hard part. It's time.”
> 
> The guards of the First guide us to Cirryn's chamber of rest. A large metal coffin resides within the middle of the room, surrounded by a countless array of beautiful flowers. “Oh my...” K'aal walks forward, crouching down and touching the flowers of the chamber. “Such a melancholic place for such beautiful flowers. Tragic.” He picks one up, then glances at a guard to ensure it wasn't seen as disrespectful. “Fairest of the blossoms, hm? And everlasting past its stem being pulled.” He respectfully tucks the flower onto his belt, and nods toward Cirryn's coffin. “Thank you, Starset Blade.” K'aal solemnly speaks to the coffin. He's always been a sentimental one, taking little trinkets and knick knacks of his travels with him to remember them by.
> 
> I imagine this must feel special to him, knowing the significance of this memorial. Remaz is standing in the corner of the room with his arms crossed, remaining silent.
> 
> I presume he can sense the importance of this place too... These flowers have such a commanding presence amidst the life within this hall. The guards begin to file out of the room, except for one. He looks over to us and speaks, “We'll be guarding the door outside. When you've finished your... experiment, we'll unseal the memorial ground.” He begins to exit the room, before pausing for a moment. “I personally believe this to be a grave sin against Cirryn's legacy, and the Hive as a whole. May the gods below judge you for what's to come.” He then exits the memorial grounds, and the door slams shut behind him.
> 
> “Well then.” I look toward K'aal and Remaz, “Are you two ready?” I'm nervous myself, but I don't want to show it. I want them to feel brave, and I want us to succeed. We can make history. “Ready to head back home, yeah.” Remaz gets off the wall, and approaches toward me, then looking toward the top of the large coffin. “K'aal, help me lift this. Don't worry about her, she'll-” Before he can finish, I've raced over to help lift the top of the coffin. “Shush. All together, please.” I say, looking towards both of them. K'aal holds the east, Remaz holds the west, and I begin to lift the south edge. “On my count. One, two.. Three!” We all put our strength into lifting the top of the coffin, eventually managing to lift it up.
> 
> “Oh.. gods, this is heavy. Ah!” Remaz exclaims as he begins to struggle and we start so move the top to the side. “Just... here, here. Let it go here.” K'aal calls over to us, and we begin to lower it on the ground. “I can barely feel my arms!”
> 
> I sigh as we finish that process, sitting down upon the grove of white memorial blossoms. “One moment, please.” Remaz sits too, and K'aal simply looks down at the two of us. “Take your time, resting, please. I don't want you two winded for the hard part.” K'aal speaks to us while looking at Cirryn's now exposed corpse. “They buried him with his signature blade. How poetic,” K'aal chuckles to himself, then gazing at the flower on his belt. “I presume I'd be the same as him, though.” I can't help but smile listening to him ruminate on such things, there's clearly a strong passion behind that sentimentality of his. He shakes his head, brushing dirt off himself.
> 
> “I'm just about ready,” I get up and look toward Remaz, “And you?” He looks up at me, tilting his head, “Hm? I was ready the whole time, just waiting for you.” He chuckles as he gets up onto his feet, although I know that's a lie. “Have you two recited the mantra before, or would this be your first?” K'aal calls out to us, standing over the corpse. I can't help but note how well kept the body is, usually corpses face worse fates, to say the least. “I memorized it quite awhile ago,” I reply, looking up to K'aal as Remaz as I begin to slowly approach the body. Remaz doesn't respond to K'aal, but it seems he already has a deep focus on the body. He's usually quite carefree in such situations...
> 
> “Is something the matter?” I ask Remaz, and he snaps out of his trance. “Nothing, Ehkusa. Just idle anxieties is all,” he speaks quietly, looking over from the corpse to me. Anxieties, hm? “It's going to be fine, Remaz. We'll be fine,” I try to reassure him, but part of me feels quite nervous too.
> 
> We stretch our hands above the body of Cirryn, and focus intently. I can sense the great life flowing within this room, from myself, my companions, and the countless white flowers surrounding the coffin. Closing my eyes, I find the vacancy; an empty pocket of life, a soulless body. When a body's soul is trapped within the [Depths](Glossary.md#the-depths), traces of the soul can be felt in its rightful body, even whilst the soul attempts to escape the [Depths](Glossary.md#the-depths). However, this vessel is completely empty... its soul lost to the confines of the deep forever, it seems. Then, should our task succeed, what would control his body? If there's... bah, I shouldn't waste so much time. I need to focus.
> 
> I focus on the vacancy, and then the flowers around me. To Lifeweave is not the act of generating new life, it is the transfer of life. This is the secret we Hivekin live by, and is the truth of our “miracle.” I find the life within the memorial flowers, observing how they act and bend; it shall suffice, with this quantity. I begin to channel their life into the vacancy, then open my eyes. The flowers closest to the coffin wilt within seconds, turning to a dark black. A growing black circle begins to grow around the coffin as each flower dies to the transfer, and I pressure the flowers' life into the place of the soul further. I can feel my head pounding from the stress, as sweat begins to trickle down my forehead, “Gods below...” I mutter to myself, as I redirect the life of hundreds of flowers into the place of Cirryn's soul.
> 
> Remaz and K'aal are completely silent, focusing their entire beings into this task as well. A large green pulse emanates over Cirryn's body, a physical sign of our Lifeweave manifestation working so far.
> 
> The once beautiful white flowers below us are now a sea of wilted, rotted leaves, and just as I fear we'll have to draw from our own life, the sense of vacancy vanishes. “Did we...” I lose my focus as soon as I notice it, looking around the room, then to Remaz and K'aal. “Did you two feel it too?” I ask them exhaustedly, attempting to catch my breath in between words. Remaz simply nods as he draws in breath, while K'aal sighs, “I did. But, I can't help but worry if that wasn't enough.” He glances at the flower on his hip, still gleaming white, then shakes his head dismissively.
> 
> Remaz finishes catching his breath, looking over to Cirryn's body. “...Do we just wait?” He asks in a somewhat puzzled manner, supposedly expecting an immediate result. “Not wait, per se. Just keep an eye on him, look for any sign of breathing, anything like that,” I call out to him as I stare intently at Cirryn's vessel. I can almost feel something swelling within it, but it's so difficult to describe what. The vacancy is completely erased, I know for certain. All of us grow quiet, as I believe the others noticed it as well. We stare at the body for a few moments, and then-
> 
> A twitch. Cirryn twitches. Did we... succeed? K'aal draws in a shocked breath, placing his hand over his mask, while Remaz doesn't move an inch. I can't help but stand motionless as well, have we... Are we necromancers? Is this heresy? No, surely they wouldn't claim such things, Ximac himself ordered this task. But, my anxieties only grow worse by the moment. “Cirryn, are you awake?” I find myself asking subconsciously, watching the body begin to shift and stir. My heart begins to pound, watching him slowly raise to life. Where I once felt that vacancy, is now something else. But it doesn't feel right. There's no soul. What compels him to move, to live, without that guiding part of us all?
> 
> “K'aal, do you feel it too?” I ask nervously to him, but I can't take my eyes away from Cirryn's form raising to life. “I do, Ehkusa. Are you afraid as well?” He asks me, but at this point my heart is beating too hard to answer. Something feels terribly wrong. There's no soul, this shouldn't be possible.
> 
> With one sudden movement, Cirryn sits up within his coffin, his gray, moss-sewn mask staring at us. But through the large crack in his visage, I can see his eyes... vacant. K'aal approaches him, putting his arm out in front of Remaz and I. “Allow me this time, please. You cut me off so rudely the last time I wished to speak,” K'aal mumbles toward me, and I haven't the heart to protest. “Greetings, Starset Blade. You've laid dormant for so, so many years, and the rest of the Hive is happy to have you with us again. My name is K'aal, I'm one of the Lifeweavers of the Second. How do you feel, Cirryn?” He asks the hero calmly, evidently trying to ensure the large being stays calm. Cirryn begins to shuffle around more, armor still intact, as he stands. He then steps out of his coffin, his blade at his side, towering over all of us.
> 
> I've never seen a Vesperian of legend, yet where I should feel admiration, I feel fear at his stature... The hero responds to Cirryn's question with a resounding silence, staring down at him. Cirryn twitches unnaturally, beginning to contort into something awful. “What in the... Gods below, what's wrong?” Remaz asks while backing away nervously towards the door, and I find myself following suit. “Something isn't right,” I mutter to him, but I can't take my eyes away from K'aal and Cirryn.
> 
> K'aal stares up at the towering hero, not moving an inch. He seems determined, but I want to scream for him to back away. The vacancy has brewed into something horrific. I feel no soul there, just the swelling roar of a thousand lives screaming in Cirryn at once, malforming and converging together into primal instinct. Cirryn's eye, visible through his cracked visage, begins to bloat and swell. “K'aal, get away from it. K'aal come here, please. Please. This isn't right. Get away from it!” I shout at him, but he refuses to move at all... please! Gods below, don't be so stupid now! Cirryn's body begins to bloat further with horrible, bright green cysts. The Lifeweave, it... it's taken control of him, but a thousand wills, they cannot-
> 
> “...And to whom do I owe the pleasure?” A bellowing deep voice breaks the silence in the room. Cirryn. How? He shouldn't... is it simply residual memories within the body? Cirryn calls out again. “And to whom do I owe the pleasure?” as he grows taller, malforming further into something unrecognizable. “And to whom do- Do I owe- And to whom- And- And-” He begins repeating the same phrase over and over, faster each time before he can finish, as he turns into a form most foul, monstrous, unrecognizable. He bloats, contorts, cysts grow and die within mere seconds on him. “It is a pleasure to meet you, Cirryn. My name is K'aal-”
> 
> Within the blink of an eye, Cirryn's Starset Blade cuts K'aal's body directly through his torso, a complete horizontal cut all the way through him. A large paint stroke of blood scatters across the wilted flowers below us. No. No no no no no no no no no no no no no no! “K'aal. K'aal!” I scream over to him, backing further up in horror. This isn't happening, this has to be a dream, I... no. No! Remaz is banging on the door to let us out, shouting and screaming that something has gone wrong. I can't... I stare at K'aal, and he turns his head toward me. “I'm.. sorry,” he mutters, before his upper torso slides off of his leg, crashing into the floor. His legs, separate from the rest of his body, then crumble into the flowers below. He's gone. K'aal is gone.
> 
> He can't survive the [Depths](Glossary.md#the-depths), no, he... “Open it! Let us out! Please!” Remaz slams on the door louder, screaming for us to be released from the chamber. I feel adrenaline beginning to surge within me. I... I don't want to die. I need to get out, I don't want to die, I don't-
> 
> The door opens, and I leap through. The guards look toward Remaz and I with puzzled expressions, then they look inside the chamber. Their expressions shift, drawing their weapons. “I knew from the beginning, necromancy is not to be toyed with. Utter fools,” one guard mocks us, stepping into the chamber and drawing his blade to Cirryn. “You make a mockery of Cirryn's legacy, Depths-sent. Now, I shall return you to your slumber-” His preamble is cut short by another slash, his upper torso meeting K'aal within the bed of wilted flowers below. The rest of the guards rush into the room, and I look at Remaz, feeling my heart pound more. “We need to go. Now. We need help, we need to run,” I stammer through my words, looking at him helplessly. Please. Gods below, just say something. “Now!” He shouts, and we begin to run, faster than we've ever ran before.
> 
> Loud stomps echo throughout the entire Greathive, as the once constant bird chirps come to a silence.
> 
> The rustling of leaves falls still. The chattering of Vesperian and Ganymede ends. Fear and panic overtake the serenity of what Hivekin call home, as we sprint through the guarded halls, the forces of Hive defense coming to defend the Greathive from what we've done. One after another, we hear scream after scream of each guard heading in to engage with Cirryn, as another loud stomp echoes through the tree as he gets further into the Greathive.
> 
> My heart is pounding harder, I can barely feel my legs as we reach the plaza. The people of the Greathive are scattering; word travels fast, but screams travel faster. I begin to catch my breath from the sprint beneath Cirryn's monument towering over the center of the plaza. Remaz drops to the floor, panting as he collects himself. “What do we do? Gods, what can we even do?!” He shouts, panicking as the stomps continue to echo through the whole tree. I want to respond, I want to cry out the right answer, but even now I find myself feeling the same way. I look over to the direction the stomps are coming from and... it's close. I look around the plaza for something, anything, that could lead us to a weapon of some sort, gods, anything! Another stomp. I can barely hear myself think over the sound of my heart. And then, I realized.
> 
> Standing across from me, across the plaza, lies the Lifeless Chamber, the cold, lifeless prison in which no Lifeweave can survive. “Remaz, do you... do you think we could get it in there?” I mutter nervously, raising my shaky hand to point toward the direction of its cold confines. He looks over to the chamber, and then towards the sounds of the ever-nearer stomps. “I think we can. But, it's... we have to lure it in there. There has to be something around here, some... gods, it's only chasing people. I don't know, we could Lifeweave- no, no, it doesn't work in there! Gods below, damn it all!” He begins to panic once more, tapping his mask nervously beneath Cirryn's monument, until he suddenly stops in his tracks.
> 
> A moment of silence passes, only broken by an even closer, loud stomp. It's near. “Ehkusa.” He calls out to me somberly, and I begin to worry. That shake in his voice isn't normal. “Yes? Did you think of something? We can try anything, please.” I look toward him for some form of reassurance, some light at the end of the tunnel.
> 
> “I.. I can lure it in there, Ehkusa.”
> 
> “Huh? No, you... I can't let you.”
> 
> I can barely form any words. He would never, he can't, he... I can't lose another friend today. “Please, Ehkusa. It's either me, or the Hivekin here suffer even more greatly.” He looks down at the floor out of hopelessness, I've never seen him like this. “No, no, Remaz. Listen to me. I... I can go! Please!” I shout at him desperately, I feel tears swelling in my eyes as the ground beneath us shakes. He doesn't look up at me, he simply shakes his head. His mind is set, and I'm helpless yet again. “It's the least I can do. For K'aal, for the Hivekin already lost, for... you. I have too much to atone for.” His voice grows more shaky, holding back tears of his own. He would never be able to forgive himself, he'd blame himself for all of this.
> 
> I hold out my hand to him. “Remaz, are you truly certain?” I ask him, looking toward his mask. He looks up to me, and grabs my hand, replying “I'm certain.” I pull him up off the ground, and watch him gather his balance. I wish I could do more for you, Remaz. I wish it didn't have to be like this, I wish... anything, anything other than this. Another stomp, across the plaza. I can see its shadow in the frame of the gate. Remaz looks towards me, and nods. “I'm going to open the door, and when it draws near... I'll lure it in there. When it's in there with me, I need you to seal the chamber behind me, Ehkusa. It's never to be opened again.” My eyes swell with more tears, and although I try my best to remain strong, I cannot help but weep for him. “U-Understood.” I stumble over my words between tears, watching him begin to walk away.
> 
> This all feels so, so familiar, and again all I do is watch. The feeling of watching him walk away for the final time is the most sour of them all. “Remaz. Thank you. For everything.” He pauses for a moment, then continues.
> 
> Cirryn enters the plaza, somehow more monstrous than before. His mask is split into a sea of fragments scattered across his now dozen limbs, mouths, and eyes all varying in sizes. I feel sick to my stomach looking at it, the tragedy we've created... “AYE!” A loud shout from the center of the plaza. Remaz. The beast's thousand eyes glare toward him, as it stomps toward him. The floor beneath us shakes violently with each step, as dust and leaves fall from the branches above. Sun beams through the canopy high, toward the plaza center where Remaz and Cirryn stand.
> 
> And then... he runs. Remaz sprints towards the Lifeless Chamber's massive entrance, then hits the button nearby to begin the opening of the entry. Cirryn stomps increasingly faster toward Remaz, as the entrance finally resides fully open. Remaz dashes inside, looking behind him one last time towards me.
> 
> My legs, my arms, every part of me is screaming to not let him go, to bring him back over here, but... it's too late for something like that. I begin to slowly move toward the direction of the chamber, keeping a distance between myself and Cirryn. As Cirryn reaches the door, he struggles to fit inside. He continuously slams himself against the frame in rapid succession, until enough of his Lifeweave cysts rot to allow him in. Once he's through the door.. I approach.
> 
> Remaz stands within the deepest section of the chamber, waiting for Cirryn to draw nearer. Cirryn's steps slow, as he draws nearer to Remaz. I reach the entrance to the chamber as Cirryn is halfway through it, and I reach for the button- I can't reach it. My heart starts pounding once again, and I struggle with all my might to just- Damn it all! I back off from the door, and take a deep breath... I need to do this. Now. I sprint towards the button, leaping off the ground and reaching for the very heights I can, up toward- I reach it, hitting the button.
> 
> The Greathive shakes as the chamber begins to seal itself. Cirryn continues to pace towards Remaz, and I helplessly watch as the chamber door slowly closes. “Remaz!” I scream towards him one last time. He looks towards me, shaking in fear, and shouts back with the last of his might,
> 
> “I'm sorry.”
> 
> The chamber door seals shut.

## Appearances

-   [Cirryn](Cirryn.md)
-   [Ehkusa](Ehkusa.md)
-   [Ka'al](<Ka'al.md>)
-   [Remaz](Remaz.md)
-   [Ryrda](Ryrda.md) (Mentioned only)
