---
title: Lightkeepers
revid: 138479
source: https://deepwoken.fandom.com/wiki/Lightkeepers
license: CC BY-SA 3.0 (content derived from the Deepwoken Wiki)
---

# Lightkeepers

Lightkeepers are people that wield the power to create light from their souls by altering their murmur. Lightkeepers are people born with a Regalia called The Gift that allows them to access the section of the Song called the Radiant Tones. Those with The Gift seem to be unable to use attunements or mantras as a whole. Lightkeepers are usually taken by the [Central Authority](The_Central_Authority.md) to work at a Lighthouse for the rest of their life, and it’s unknown if this damages their health or lifespan. Lightkeepers cannot leave their lighthouses at all costs because they're very valuable and can't be risked. Getting the blessing of a Lightkeeper placed on your ship is the only safe way to go about cross Luminant travel. A boat called the Petra's Dawn, the ship the [Petra's Anchor](<Petra's_Anchor.md>) comes from, is said to be the only ship to have sailed between Luminants without a blessing, and it sunk on the return trip as it still didn't have a Lightkeeper's Gift. Lightkeepers are capable of teaching others how to utilize the Radiant Tones, but not anywhere near to the extent they themselves can become Lightkeepers themselves. It is likely only limited parts of Radiant Tones can be taught to someone without The Gift, unlike attunement trainers who can teach and give anyone access to their said attunement. So far we only know of one Lightkeeper, Viqh, who was taken to the [Eastern lighthouse,](Eastern_Interstitial_Lighthouse.md) but refuses to run it out of spite. Viqh taught [Klaris](Klaris_Llfiend,_Mother_of_Lights.md) how to utilize the radiant tones, which Klaris engineers to create the [Dawnwalker Oath](Oath%253A_Dawnwalker.md), and _potentially_ the [Lighthook](Light_Hook.md). The magic that is seen and utilized by Dawnwalkers is merely a combat-oriented imitation of Lightkeeping through the usage of Radiant Tones.
